prefect-dbt - update integration docs (#14133)
PrefectHQ/prefect: docs/integrations/prefect-dbt/index.mdx

title: prefect-dbt
---

> With `prefect-dbt` you can trigger and observe dbt Cloud jobs, execute dbt Core CLI commands, and incorporate other tools, such as Snowflake, into your dbt runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With `prefect-dbt`, you can trigger and observe dbt Cloud jobs, execute dbt Core CLI commands, and incorporate other tools, such as [Snowflake](integrations/prefect-snowflake/index), into your dbt runs.
```

run_dbt_job_flow()
```

### Save dbt Cloud credentials to a block

Blocks can be [created through code](/3.0rc/develop/connect-third-party/#saving-blocks) or through the UI.

> To create a dbt Cloud Credentials block do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a dbt Cloud Credentials block:
```

1. Go to your [dbt Cloud profile](https://cloud.getdbt.com/settings/profile).
2. Log in to your dbt Cloud account.
3. Scroll to **API** or click **API Access** on the sidebar.
4. Copy the API Key.
5. Click **Projects** on the sidebar.
6. Copy the account ID from the URL: `https://cloud.getdbt.com/settings/accounts/<ACCOUNT_ID>`.

> 7. Create and run the following script, replacing the placeholders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Create and run the following script, replacing the placeholders:
```

```python
from prefect_dbt.cloud import DbtCloudCredentials

DbtCloudCredentials(
    api_key="API-KEY-PLACEHOLDER",
    account_id="ACCOUNT-ID-PLACEHOLDER"
).save("CREDENTIALS-BLOCK-NAME-PLACEHOLDER")
```

> Then, to create a dbt Cloud job block do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, create a dbt Cloud job block:
```

    trigger_dbt_flow()
```

> If you are already using Prefect blocks such as the Snowflake Connector block, you can use those blocks to [create a new profiles.yml with a DbtCliProfile block](#create-a-new-profile-with-blocks). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are already using Prefect blocks such as the [Snowflake Connector block](integrations/prefect-snowflake/index#access-underlying-snowflake-connection), you can use those blocks to [create a new profiles.yml with a DbtCliProfile block](#create-a-new-profile-with-blocks). 
```

#### Use environment variables with Prefect secret blocks

> If you use environment variables in `profiles.yml`, set a Prefect Secret block as an environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use environment variables in `profiles.yml`, set a Prefect Secret block as an environment variable:
```

# Access the stored secret
DBT_PASSWORD = secret_block.get()
os.environ["DBT_PASSWORD"] = DBT_PASSWORD
```

This example `profiles.yml` file could then access that variable.
```yaml
profile:
  target: prod
  outputs:
    prod:
      type: postgres
      host: 127.0.0.1
      # IMPORTANT: Make sure to quote the entire Jinja string here
      user: dbt_user
      password: "{{ env_var('DBT_PASSWORD') }}"
```

### Programmatic Invocation

`prefect-dbt` has some pre-built tasks that use dbt's [programmatic invocation](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/programmatic-invocations). For example:
```python
from prefect import flow
from prefect_dbt.cli.tasks import from prefect import flow
from prefect_dbt.cli.commands import trigger_dbt_cli_command, dbt_build_task

@flow
def dbt_build_flow():
    trigger_dbt_cli_command(
        command="dbt deps", project_dir="/Users/test/my_dbt_project_dir",
    )
    dbt_build_task(
        project_dir="/Users/test/my_dbt_project_dir",
        create_summary_artifact: bool = True,
        summary_artifact_key: str = "dbt-build-task-summary",
        extra_command_args=["--model", "foo_model"]
    )
if __name__ == "__main__":
    dbt_build_flow()
```

> To see all of the pre-built tasks, visit the SDK docs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [SDK docs](https://prefect-python-sdk-docs.netlify.app/prefect_dbt/) for other pre-built tasks.
```
